Super Top-Up Policy

Super Top-Up Plans offer an additional coverage over the regular policy that can help to increase the amount of sum insured. The Super Top-Up Policy can be used only after the sum insured of one’s regular policy is exhausted.
For example, if a person has a regular health plan of Rs 3 lakh and a Top-Up plan of Rs 5 lakh. If there is a claim for Rs 5 lakh, then the existing medical policy will pay a claim of Rs 3 lakh and remaining claimed amount of Rs 2 lakh will be covered by the Super Top-Up policy.
2)What is difference between Mediclaim and Super top-Up policy ?
A Mediclaim policy pays the claim from Rs. 1/- till maximum Sum Insured under your base policy.
Whereas Super top-up policy cover hospitalization expenses beyond the chosen Deductible limit. The
deductible limit is chosen by you. In other word it is a Mediclaim policy which triggers after a certain
pre-decided limit of expense has crossed.
Further mediclaim and super top up policy can work along with one another. That is, if you have a
mediclaim you can also purchase a super top up policy to get an enhance cover. Even if you do
not have a mediclaim policy you can opt for Super Top up Policy.
3) Why should I take Super top-up policy when I already have Mediclaim Policy ?
1) It increases your sum insured at very reasonable premium
2) No capping, No Co-Pay, Just 1 Month waiting period.
3) Pre-existing Disease are also covered from Day One.
4) Opportunity to avoid heavy deduction due to Room Rent limits.
5) Super Top Up plan is cheapest super top up plan available in the market.
6) For higher age person above 55 years of age it is very difficult to increase the sum insured under
your mediclaim policy hence super top up policy is advisable where you can top up your mediclaim sum insured
by Rs. 15 lakh up to 80 years of age.
7) For major surgeries like Replacement of Organ like Kidney Transplant, heart transplant where the claim
cost crosses Rs. 20 Lakh this Super top Up policy can only cover such expenses.
4)How Super top-up policy is more beneficial than general Top up policy?
Whenever anyone hospitalization exceed your base policy sum insured then claim is payable under top up
policy. It is rare incident that single hospitalisation can arise where total hospitalisation bill will cross Rs. 5 lakh
or deductible selected by you. Whereas under Super Top Up Policy aggregate of all claims made by your family
members once crossesthe base policy sum insured then your super top policy will start making the claim
payment.
5)If I have floater mediclaim policy then how super top up policy will pay the claim ?
In floater Mediclaim policy the base sum insured will be for all the members of the family. Hence either the claim
amount should exceed the deductible amount or sum insured should be exhausted for super top up policy to
respond. Under floater policy claims of one or more member of the family or one or more claim of one of the
family member should exceed the deductible amount chosen under super top up sum insured.
6) If I have Individual mediclaim policy then how super top up policy will respond ?
In individual Mediclaim policy every family member will have his own sum insured under base policy. Hence for
super top up policy to respond his claim amountshould cross the deductible limit under super top up policy.
His / her other family memberssum insured still remaining balance under base policy.
7)Who can be covered under Super Top Up Policy ?
All Members of ICSI can get covered under Super top up policy.
8)Who all from my family member can be covered under the Super Top UP policy?
Your entire family can be covered under the policy maximum up to 4 members. Your self & Spouse upto the
age of 80 Years ( or the maximum age as per policy terms), 2 dependent Children up to the age of 25 years ( Or
the maximum age as per policy terms) of age can be covered under the policy.
9)What is the maximum age to be covered in the policy?
Maximum age is as per the terms and conditions of the Master policy. However, Once join then they will be
covered life long on renewal of policies.
10)What is a base policy you are referring to?
Base policy is your Mediclaim policy. It can be your Mediclaim Policy, Individual Mediclaim policy or a Family
Floater Mediclaim policy. It can also be your group Mediclaim policy offered by your employer. The sum
insured under your base policy is base policy sum insured.
11)How to select Sum-Insured under super top up policy?
Higher the better. You can select sum insured from Rs. 5 Lakhs, Rs. 10 Lakhs & Rs. 15 Lakhs option. However it
is better you select Rs. 15 lakhs as sum insured to maximize your Coverage over and above your Base Policy.
12)What you mean by deductible Limit ?
Deductible limit is a pre-decided limit chosen in super top-up Policy by you. Super Top-up policy gets
triggered and starts paying claim once the aggregate expense crossesthis deductible limit.
Example-1: Multiple Claims in a policy year
Base Policy Sum
Insured
Super Top Up Sum
Insured Opted
Claim Amount
eligible
Base policy will
pay (Rs.)
Super Top Up
Policy will pay
At Inception 500,000 500,000
Claim 1 200,000 500,000 350,000 350,000 0
Claim 2 200,000 500,000 200,000 150,000 50,000
Claim 3 200,000 500,000 200,000 0 200,000
Claim 4 200,000 500,000 100,000 0 100,000
Total Paid 850,000 500,000 350,000
13)Can I choose deductible limit less then/ more then my base policy sum insured?
Ideally we should choose deductible limit which is equal to your Mediclaim policy sum insured so you
should get optimum cover. However it is not compulsory to choose only the same. You can choose
lower than/ Higher then your base policy sum insured. We have option of Rs. 5 Lakh or Rs. 10 Lakh as
deductible sum insured. You can choose any of the above.
14)What are the deductible option available in Super Top-Up policy ?
Member with or without Base Policy : Deductibles Rs. 5 lakh and Rs. 10 lakh
15) Can I get super top up policy if I don’t have base Mediclaim policy?
If you or your family member does not have Mediclaim policy then you can still get super top up policy.
Moreover, it is recommended as it is imperative that you limit your expenses.
16) If some of my family member do not have cover under any mediclaim policy , Can I get super top
up policy?
Yes. Still you will get super top up policy and cover these members also in super top up policy. However for
those members who do not have any other mediclaim policy their deductible under super top up policy will
be minimum Rs. 5 Lakh.
17)High value claim is rare to occur then why I should take super top up policy ?
It is not necessary that in single hospitalisation your sum insured should be exhausted. Even in aggregate 
of multiple hospitalisation of smaller claims, cross your base policy sum insured then super top up policy
will come to your rescue and pay the balance hospitalisation bills. All the hospitalisation bills for more
than one member of your family can also be accumulated to claim under super top up policy.
18) Can I accumulate hospitalisation bills of my all family membersto exhaust the deductible
limit?
In super top up policy, all the hospitalisation claims of all the members covered under the policy can
be accumulated. So super top up policy will trigger once multiple hospitalisation claims of your all family
members crosses the deductible limit.
19) Wha t period’s hospitalization claims I can get under super top up policy?
You can claim all the bills for which hospitalization has occurred during super top up policy period. If
your base policy period is 1
st Jan, 2018 to 31st December, 2018. Super top up policy period is 1
st April,
2018 to 30th March, 2019 and If you have claims paid under base policy before inception of super top up
policy i.e. 1
st April 2018 then the same will not be considered for exhaustion of deductible limit of super
top up policy.
20) How is the premium calculated for group policy ?
If a group policy is issued for the first time then the general claim ratio of individual policies is considered. Further
the fact that the company receives huge number of policy holders at one time, the reduced advertisement costs
can be passed on by way of discount on premium.
For renewal of group policy, the premiums are decided on the basis of past claim ratio, age
composition of the policy holders, types of claims made earlier and assumptions made for future
claims.
21)What cover super top up policy offers to you ?
Super top up policy covers all hospitalisation expenses covered under your base policy. In addition
whether your base policy is covering Pre- existing disease or not it covers Pre existing disease from
Day 1 under the policy. If your base policy has waiting period for PED cover then you opt for
deductible more than Rs. 5 lakh in which case your PED claims will also be paid under Super Top
Up Policy.
1) Hospitalisation expenses covered Pan India occurred either due to adent or natural diseases.
2) In patient hospitalisation expenses will be covered in reimbursement basis.
3) No Medical test to be done prior taking this policy.
4) 1 Month Waiting Period is applicable under the policy for hospitalization claims.
5) 30 days pre hospitalization expenses are included: Medical expenses incurred 30 days prior to the
hospitalization are reimbursed.
6) Post Hospitalization expenses up to 60 days are covered.
7) Internal congenital diseases covered.
8) Minimum Hospitalization of 24 hours required for the treatment, which cannot be taken at home.
9) The minimum hospitalization clause is not applicable for Cataract, Chemotherapy & fracture or
any Day Care treatment.
22)What will be the general exclusions as per policy terms and conditions?
The list of exclusions are mentioned in Terms and condition applicable to super top up policy. All the
exclusions are common between your base policy and super top up policy. However under super top
up policy exclusions like Pre-existing diseases, Waiting period of special disease & 30days are not
applicable
23) I am a proposer & my age is 60 years, my husband’s age is 65 years. Which slab
premium will be applicable to me?
Since maximum age of the one of the family member is above 61 years you will be charged
premium of 61 – 80 years of age.
24)Am I eligible for Tax Benefit under Super Top UP Policy
Yes, you will get Tax benefit under section 80D
25)Is there any co-payment under Super Top Up Policy
No. There is no co-payment applicable to Super Top Up Policy.
26)Would this policy is subject to any medical test?
No, this is Super Top Up Policy need not to undergo any medical test.
27)What would be the period of the policy?
The policy would be for one year from the date of inception.
28)What is the name of Insurance Company?
Aditya Birla Health Insurance Company Ltd.
30)What will be the period of my policy?
The policy period will 365 days from the Date of Inception.
31)In how many days Company will issue Policy Copy and TPA card?
Policy would be issued within 15 days and the card would be issued after 10 days of policy issuance.
33)Does this scheme have cashlessfacility?
Yes, You can claim through cashless & reimbursement. And in all cases immediate intimation shall be given to
our Call Center within 24 hours of Hospitalization.
34)Is there any tax rebate?
Yes , under section 80 D you can claim TAX Rebate
35)Can I have the policy number?
Yes, you will get Policy Number. You will also get Policy Certificate for your family. You will receive Health ID
card thorough which you can come for cashless & reimbursement claim
36)Do we get no claim bonusif we do not claim in the existing year?
No, as this is a Group scheme you will not get NO Claim Bonus
39)Will the change in names in between policy period matters?
Yes, According to the Insurance Company the claim will not be settled (unless prior intimation to
Insurance company) if there is any alterations in the name It has to be intimated to your respective Insurance
Co. within 15 days on receipt of your cards & requisite Endorsement for the change in name needs to be passed
by Insurance co. This has to be done first hand and not only if any claim arises. The window period will close for
change in name on within 1 Month.
40)Can I claim medical expensesincurred before and after a surgery?
You can claim medical expenses incurred 30 days before and 60 days after hospitalization (as specified in your
policy), provided they are related to the ailment/treatment for which you were hospitalized. Such expenses
are termed as pre and post hospitalization, except for Maternity Claims.
41) If I have a health insurance policy in Mumbai, can I make a claim if I am transferred to Delhi?
Yes, your health insurance policy is valid all over INDIA
42)I am a Member but my wife is not a Member? Can I insure my wife?
Under the family floater policy you can cover your wife as long as the proposer is Member and because
now she is a part of your family.
43)If I have only 3 membersin my family can I buy a Family Floater Policy?
Family Floater Policy is available for family size ranging between 2 to 4 members i.e. Proposer + Spouse + 2
Dependent Children up to 25 years of Age.
44) Can I take my married daughter in policy?
No. As she is now not part of your family.
45) What if I am or my family member is already suffering from a disease? Can I yet get myself or my family
members covered?
Pre‐Existing Diseases are covered since day 1. Also there is only 1 Month Waiting Period in any illness.
