Money back policies

Investment is the key to build wealth towards contingencies and financial security. While some investment plans purely offer returns, some
schemes also offer insurance coverage. 

Each of these investment vehicles offers numerous benefits individually. However, you may invest in a plan that offers the combined advantages
of both insurance coverage and returns.

One such plan is a money back policy. Such policies not only offer an insurance cover but also allow you to enjoy returns at regular intervals. These insurance plans protect your family in case of your sudden demise or if you are diagnosed with critical illness. Besides, such policies
provide you with periodic payouts, which help you to meet your financial commitments.

These days, such plans are a popular investment option. Below mentioned are four keymoney back policy benefits.

1. Low risk exposure

Financial instruments such as mutual funds and stocks entail a high degree of risk due to the volatility in the capital market. However, the
same is not the case with money back insurance policies. Since such plans are insurance cum return products they do not entail high risk. Hence,
you may invest in such plans if you have a low risk appetite.

2. Regular source of income

As the name suggests, money back policies provide frequent payouts during the policy term. This amount, known as 'survival benefits,' is a
percentage of the sum assured. The amount is pre-determined and is paid at regular intervals until the maturity of the plan. You may use the
amount to meet your regular financial needs, without having to wait until the completion of the policy term. It is important to note that this
benefit is payable only till you survive. In case of your demise, the survival benefits do not accrue any more.

3.Insurance coverage

In case of an unfortunate event such as death, your loved ones will require financial support, especially if you are the breadwinner of the
family. Money back insurance plans offer insurance coverage, thus providing financial security to your family members to meet their obligations
after your demise. Your nominee will receive the entire sum assured irrespective of the amount that has been paid through survival benefits.

4.Assured return on investment

Money back plans offer an assured return on the invested amount. Therefore, you need not worry about losing out on your investment. Instead, you
may grow your wealth as well as secure your life through such investment opportunities.

Due to the aforementioned benefits,money back policies are becoming popular investment instruments among the masses. You too may invest in such plans and reap dual benefits of regular payouts and insurance coverage.

You may invest in HDFC Life Super Income Plan, which is a non-linked participating limited pay money back life insurance plan. The policy offers
guaranteed benefits as well as bonuses that meet your investment needs. HDFC Life Super Income Plan provides a guaranteed income for 8 to 15
years after the premium payment term. Thus, this plan is an excellent option if you are seeking regular payouts to meet your financial
obligations. Additionally, in your absence, you may secure your family's financial future through an insurance cover.

Through this policy, you may also enjoy survival benefits, ranging from 8% to 12.5% of the sum assured payable every year during the payout
period. On maturity, you may also receive reversionary bonuses and terminal bonuses, if any. Besides, you have the flexibility to pay your
premium either monthly, quarterly, half-yearly, or annually, based on your preferences. Moreover, you may customize your plan through a rider,
known as HDFC Life Income Benefit on Accidental Disability. Through this rider, you may avail of 1% of rider sum assured in case of Total
Permanent Disability due to an unfortunate event of an accident. 

In the year 2014, HDFC Life Super Income Plan was awarded as the 'Best Product Innovation Award' at the Indian Insurance Awards. So, invest in
this great money back plan and enjoy the dual benefits of insurance coverage and regular payouts.
